The Java Architecture::

Architecture:
     
              Java's architecture makes a useful tool for developing software in a networked environment.
Architecuture is systematic arrangement of components.

             A single component or a new function has design that has to fit within the overall architecture.
 A similar term framwork can be throught of as the structure part of an architecture. An architecture is 
 a design but most designs are not architecture.

Java Architecture consists of the following : 
1.JVM(Java Virtual Machine)
2.Java Compiler
3.JRE
4.JDK
5.Source code
6.JIT

1.JVM(Java Virtual Machine):

       Java Virtual Machine is a component which provides environment for running java program.
 JVM interprets the bytecode into machine code which will be executed the machine in which the java
 program runs.

2.Java compiler:

       Compile the course to java class files and run the class files on a JVM. It's role in platform
 independence is serving as a binary form for java programs that is expected by the JVM but
 independent of underlying host platforms, and our program specific to a particular implementation
 of the java platform.


                       soure code 
                            |
                    java compiler
                            |
                      byte code----JVM---OS

3.JRE(Java Runtime Environment):

       JRE contains JVM class libraries and other supporting files.Java runtime environment it is used to
 run a programe in java.
       JRE performs the main tasks like : 1.Load the class. 2.Verifies the bytecode. 3.Interprets the bytecode
-Class Loader : Class loader loads all the class files required to excute the program,once the bytecode is loaded successfully,
	        then next step is bytecode verification by bytecode verifier.
-Bytecode Verifier : It verifies the bytecode to see if any security problems are there in code or not.
	        Once the code is verified and proven that there is no security issuses with the code,
	        JVM will convert bytecode into machine code which will be directly executed by the machine in which Java program runs.

4.JDK(Java Development Kit): 

       Java development kit is the core component of java. JDK contains tools needed to develop the
java programs. The JDK is what you need to compile java source code. These are components of the
java architecture of java...

5.SOURCE CODE:

 source code is code that you write in the Java programming language.

 source code is converted to Java bytecode by the Java compiler.

 source code files usually have the .java extension.

6.JIT( Just-In-Time):
     JUST-IN-TIME is a component which helps the program execution to happen faster.
  The JIT compiler compiles the bytecodes of that method into native machine code, compiling it "just in time" to run.